Add blog post about Python 3.14 migration (#2618)
conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io: blog/2025-10-08-python-314.md

we did not need to rebuild packages that are `abi3`-compatible.
Here, you can use the builds that were done with previous Python versions.
Similarly, all pure Python packages (i.e. the ones we call `noarch: python` in the conda world) didn't need to be rebuilt and can be used directly.

Still, as the statistics above show, not all packages are available for Python 3.14 yet.
The most prominent here include `pytorch`, `numba`, and `cytoolz`.
For the latter two, we need to wait for them to provide new releases that make them compatible with 3.14.
In the case of PyTorch, we either need to wait for the new `2.10.0` release or may be able to backport changes to the `2.9.0` release.
You can track the progress on the upstream side in [pytorch#156856](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/156856) and on the conda-forge side in [pytorch-cpu-feedstock#420](https://github.com/conda-forge/pytorch-cpu-feedstock/pull/420).
For `numba`, we expect the necessary changes to land in `0.63`.
As a there is already [a beta](https://github.com/numba/numba/releases/tag/0.63.0b1) available, we will wait here for the final release and won't backport any changes.

> For other packages, similar approaches will be taken.

Author: I'm a bit split on this. There is a group of people for whom this is too much information, but there is also a different set of people (e.g. my colleagues) for whom conda-forge is the first place to check for missing Python 3.14 and appreciate these links to upstream to track what is missing in their environments to have Python 3.14. At least historically, `numba` availability was a binary decision point on whether to actually attempt to solve an environment for a new Python version.

You can track the progress for each of them if you click on [the respective link on the status page](https://conda-forge.org/status/migration/?name=python314).

If you face any issue with the Python package itself, please report that on the [python-feedstock](https://github.com/conda-forge/python-feedstock/issues).
For problems with individual packages, please do so on the respective `conda-forge/<package>-feedstock` repository.

## How was conda-forge able to provide release day availability?

Like we already did in the releases for [Python 3.13](https://conda-forge.org/blog/2024/09/26/python-313/) and [Python 3.12](https://conda-forge.org/news/2023/09/25/python-312-migration-and-python-311-by-default/), we have started building packages for Python 3.14 once the release candidate was available.

> As ABI-stability is guaranteed between release candidates, these packages are also usable with the final Python release.

Author: ```suggestion
As ABI-stability is guaranteed between release candidates, these packages are also usable with the final Python release.
Unfortunately, as part of this release process, the [magic number stored in Python bytecode (`.pyc`) was bumped](https://discuss.python.org/t/python-3-14-0rc3-is-go/103815) in RC2 and RC3.
This means that the bytecode will be regenerated on the first run for packages built with a version earlier than RC3.
As the impact of this has been minor, we did not rebuild the respective packages and expect that through package updates, this will quickly become unnoticeable.
```

Reviewer: Fine by me, though I would put it after the "Thus we were able"

Thus, we were able to start building packages for this release already on [August 20](https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge-pinning-feedstock/pull/7598).

Note that the current migration only includes the "default" flavour of Python.
We have not yet started building packages for the `freethreading` version.

> Once the work there has progressed a bit more, this should happen in the next months.

Author: We could reword this then to:
```suggestion
Once work on making the migrator more selective has progressed, we will start to build packages.
```
